Emergency Department Clinic
12/25/2007 10:00


CC
Cough

Subjective
Cough: The patient presents with complaints of progressively worsening cough X about 2 weeks.  Cough is productive of green sputum.  The patient also c/o dyspnea on exertion, fever (X 2 days), chills and night sweats.  There has been no known sick contact.  Also, no recent nursing home or hospital admission and no use of antibiotics in the last 3 months.

Hypertension
The patient usually takes HCTZ 12.5 mg qday, Metoprolol 50 mg BID, and Lisinopril 20 mg qday for blood pressure.  However, he ran out of his Metoprolol and HCTZ about 3 months ago and hasnt gotten them refilled because he doesnt have a physician in this area (he moved here about 6 months ago).  He would also like a refill of his Lisinopril today.


Diabetes mellitus type 2
The patient indicates his DM has been well controlled.


Review of Systems
1. GEN: the pt has had an intentional weight loss of about 30 pounds over the last 4 months (watching diet and exercising).
2. ENT: no rhinorrhea or sore throat.
3. CV: no chest pain, light-headedness or syncope.
4. PULM: as noted above.
5. GI: no nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.
6. MSK: no body aches or pains except for knee pain, which is mild and at the patients baseline (has osteoarthritis).
7. NEURO: no confusion or focal weakness.
8. DERM: no rash.
9. PSYCH: normal mood and behavior.


Objective
VITALS:
	SBP:156, DBP:93, Pulse:61, POx:92, Temp:101.2, RR:24, Weight:198, Height:70, BMI:28
EXAM:
GEN: NAD, well developed and well nourished.
HEENT: NCAT, EOMI, PERRLA, TMs are pearly grey with normal landmarks and light reflexes, nasal turbinates are pink and non-swollen, oropharynx is non-erythematous with no exudates.
NECK: no lymphadenopathy.
HEART: RRR no M/R/G.
LUNGS: decreased breath sounds in left lower lobe.
ABD: soft, NT, ND, +BS
EXT: no LE edema
NEURO: AAOX3, CN II-XII intact, normal patellar DTRs, normal gait.

Assessment and Plan

Hypertension
Assessment
Control of Hypertension is worse.
BP elevated today is likely because patient has been without some of his BP meds for several months.
Plan
Start Lisinopril 20 mg daily today to decrease SBP and DBP
Start HCTZ 12.5 mg daily today to decrease DBP and SBP
Start Metoprolol 50 mg BID today to decrease SBP and DBP

Misc.
Assessment
Community Acquired Pneumonia: Chest X-ray is consistent with a LLL pneumonia.  CURB-65 score = 1 (age > 65) and patient appears well so will likely do fine with outpatient treatment.
Plan
Orders: CXR, CBC, chem14
Community Acquired Pneumonia: Start levofloxacin 750 mg daily X 5 days (prescriptoin for levofloxacin called in to pharmacy of patients choice).  Pt is instructed to follow up with a primary care provider of his choice sometime in the next 2-5 days.  He is to return to the ER if his condition worsens at all or if he has fever > 1 more day, temperature > 104 degrees, confusion, light-headedness, nausea or vomiting.


Author:  ED_Doctor