General Medical Clinic
05/14/2008 13:00


CC
The patient is a new patient here to establish care.

Subjective
The pt recently lost her job as a maintenance woman at a hotel.  She is now without health insurance.  She has multiple medical problems as outlined below.  She has generally been in good health.  All of her medical conditions have been well controlled.



Hypertension
The patient was first diagnosed with HTN about 5 years ago.  She is currently taking Metoprolol 50 mg PO BID and lisinopril 20 mg PO daily as prescribed by her previous healthcare provider.  She denies light headedness and indicates she has always tolerated her antihypertensive medications well.

Iron deficiency anemia
Pt denies fatigue, Light Headedness and Constipation .  Indicates her last CBC done 1 year ago revealed normal hemoglobin and hematocrit.  Tolerating Ferrous sulfate fine.

Coronary Artery Disease
About 3 years ago, the pt went to the ER with complaints of chest pain.  It turns out, she was having a heart attack.  she received a cardiac stent at that time and has had no significant angina since then.  She is taking 81 mg of ASPIRIN daily, which she tolerates well.  She is also taking metoprolol and lisinopril as previously noted.

Hyperlipidemia
The patient has had good cholesterol levels since starting simvastatin about 3 years ago.  She is currently using simvastatin 40 mg daily.  Last lipid panel was done about one year ago per pt report.  The patient denies muscle pain.


Allergies
NKDA

PMH
HYPERTENSION NOS
Hyperlipidemia
IRON DEFIC ANEMIA NOS
Coronary Artery Disease


PSurgHx
None

FamHx
None significant

SocHx
Lifetime non-user of tobacco.
Drinks alcohol rarely.
Has 5 adult children.
Unemployed (has had many different jobs).

Review of Systems
Negative

Objective
VITALS:
	SBP:121, DBP:72, Pulse:63, POx:93, Temp:98.1, RR:12, Weight:182, Height:66, BMI:29
EXAM:
GEN: NAD, well-developed, well groomed.
HEENT: NCAT
HEART: RRR, no M/R/G
LUNGS: CTAB no W/R/R
ABD: soft, NT, ND
EXT: no LE edema

Assessment and Plan

Hypertension
Assessment
Control of Hypertension is stable.
Well controlled without medication side effects per pt report.
Plan
Start Lisinopril 20 mg daily today to decrease SBP and DBP
Check Chem14 to monitor kidney and liver
Start Metoprolol 50 mg BID today to decrease SBP and DBP

Iron deficiency anemia
Assessment
Control of Iron deficiency anemia is stable.
Pt doing well; tolerating ferrous sulfate well; pt due for CBC now.
Plan
Start Ferrous sulfate 325 mg BID today to increase HCT
Check CBC to monitor anemia

Coronary Artery Disease
Assessment
Control of Coronary Artery Disease is stable.
Doing well
Plan
Start Aspirin 81 mg daily today to  Prevent recurrent MI
Continue Metoprolol and Lisinopril as previously noted.

Hyperlipidemia
Assessment
Control of Hyperlipidemia is stable.
Well controlled per pt report.  Tolerating simvastatin well.  Due for lipid panel now.
Plan
Check Lipid panel to monitor cholesterol
Start Simvastatin 40 mg daily today to decrease LDL
Chem14 also ordered.

Misc.
Plan
RTC in 1 year.

Author:  IM_Doctor